2. Motion in a Straight Line

A.
Motion
1.   If an object changes its position with respect to its surroundings with
     time, then it is called in motion.
B.
Rest
1.   If an object does not change its position with respect to its
  surroundings with time, then it is called at rest.
  Rest and motion are relative states. It means an object which is at rest
  in one frame of reference can be in motion in another frame of
  reference at the same time.
  
2.   Point Object An object can be considered as a point object, if the distance travelled
  by it is very large in comparison to its dimensions.

C.
Types of Motion
     1. One Dimensional Motion
           If only one out of three coordinates specifying the position of the object
          changes with respect to time, then the motion is called one dimensional
          motion or rectilinear motion.
        
           For instance, motion of a block in a straight line, motion of a train
          along a straight track, a man walking on a level and narrow road and
          object falling under gravity etc.
     
     2. Two Dimensional Motion
           If only two out of three coordinates specifying the position of the object
         change with respect to time, then the motion is called two dimensional
         motion.
           A circular motion is an instance of two dimensional motion.

     3. Three Dimensional Motion
           If all the three coordinates specifying the position of the object change
         with respect to time, then the motion is called three dimensional
         motion. A few instances of three dimension at motion are flying bird, a
         flying kite, the random motion of gas molecule etc.
D.
Frame of Reference
        The most convenient system is a rectangular coordinate system of
     three mutually perpendicular axes as X, Y , and Z. The point of
     intersection of these three axes is called origin (O) and considered as
     the reference point. The x, y, z-coordinates describe the position of the
     object w.r.t the coordinate system. This coordinate system along with a
     clock constitutes a frame of reference.
E.
Distance or Path Length Covered
       1. The length of the actual path covered by an object is called the
          distance.
       2. It is a scalar quantity and it can never be zero or negative during the
          motion of an object. Its SI unit is metre.
F.
Displacement
       1.  The shortest distance between the initial and final positions of any
         object during motion is called displacement. The displacement of an
         object in a given time can be positive, zero or negative.
       2.  Displacement, (change in x = x2 - x1)
         where, x1 and x2 are the initial and final positions of object,
         respectively.
       3. It is a vector quantity. Its SI unit is metre.
G.
Speed
       1. The time rate of change of position of the object in any direction is
         called speed of the object.

       2. speed(s) = distance(x)/time(t)

       3. Its SI unit is m/s.
          It is a scalar quantity.
          Its dimensional formula is [M LT ] 0 -1 .









