1   Units and  Measurement

The comparison of any physical quantity with its standard unit is
called measurement.
A.
Physical Quantities
    All the quantities which can be measured directly or indirectly in
  terms of which the laws of Physics are described are called physical
  quantities.

2. Units
A standard amount of a physical quantity chosen to measure the
physical quantity of the same kind is called a physical unit. It should be
easily reproducible, internationally accepted.

3. Fundamental Quantities and Their Units
Those physical quantities which are independent to each other are
called fundamental quantities and their units are called
fundamental units.
Fundamental
quantities

4.Supplementary Fundamental Quantities and Their Units
Radian and steradian are two supplementary fundamental units. It
measures plane angle and solid angle respectively.

5.Derived Quantities and Their Units
Those physical quantities which are derived from fundamental
quantities are called derived quantities and their units are called
derived units e.g. Velocity, acceleration, force, work etc.
B.
Systems of Units
    A system of units is the complete set of units, both fundamental and
  derived, for all kinds of physical quantities. The common system of
  units which is used in mechanics are given below:

(i) CGS System : In this system, the unit of length is centimetre,
                the unit of mass is gram and the unit of time is second.

(ii) FPS System : In this system , the unit of length is foot, the unit
                     of mass is pound and the unit of time is second.

(iii) MKS System : In this system, the unit of length is metre, the
                  unit of mass is kilogram and the unit of time is second.

(iv) SI System : The system of units, which is accepted
                Internationally for measurement is the System Internationality
                units abbreviated as SI. This system contains seven
                fundamental units and two supplementary fundamental units.





